Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
It does now seem like that sometime
in the last couple of days
there's been perhaps the worst
accident in the short history
of the world's nuclear
power industry.
In Moscow. Western diplomats have
spent the day trying to get
more information about
the accident with no success.
A zone with a 19 mile
radius around Chernobyl remains
a poisoned no man's land.
Soviet television tonight
accused the western media
of spreading slanderous inventions
about the Chernobyl accident.
MAN ON MARKETING VIDEO:
MAN IN MARKETING VIDEO:
MAN IN HELICOPTER:
MAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN:
MAN SPEAKING IN VIDEO:
It's now clear that the Soviet Union
has suffered one of the worst
disasters in the history
of nuclear power.
Massive quantities of radiation have
apparently been released
in an accident at the Chernobyl
Power Station in the Ukraine.
The Soviet version is this. one of
the atomic reactors
at the Chernobyl Atomic Power Plant
in the city of Kyiv was damaged
and there is speculation in Moscow
that people were injured
and may have died.
The Soviets may have been fairly
quick to acknowledge the accident
because evidence in the form of
mild and nuclear radiation
have already reached beyond
the Soviet borders to Scandinavia.
There are indications the accident
could have happened
several days ago.
it would take that long for
radiation to drift to Scandinavia
and to make the political decision
to announce it.
You can be sure that the decision
to. to disclose was made at
the very highest level.
undoubtedly by Gorbachev himself.
The Soviet press is paying
significantly little attention
to the disaster.
newspapers carry only
the brief official announcement
inconspicuously placed.
People have noticed a small
paragraph but seemed unaware
of the potential dangers.
People in the cities.
towns and villages of the Ukraine
just haven't been told
what dangers they may face.
MAN ON ARCHIVE VIDEO:
MAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN:
On the eve of the 7 Nation Summit in
Tokyo both Mrs Thatcher and
President Reagan have urged
the Russians to say more about
Chernobyl.
Meeting with Italy's Premier Craxi
Mr Reagan was demanding answers
from the Russians.
Come forward and tell everybody
exactly what happened.
You can hardly call this kind of
an accident internal affair
when other countries are threatened
with the fall out of ra-
dangerous radioactivity.
A report in this morning's
community party newspaper Pravda
indicates that the fire at the power
station still may not have been
put out 10 days after it started.
The newspaper says there was
an explosion followed by two fires
at the plant.
The Pravda pays tribute to
the firemen whose efforts it says
limited the scale of
the damage considerably.
Brave bold men it calls them.
fighting courageously. hardly
able to breath for soot and smoke.
their boots sticking in the asphalt
melted by the high temperatures.
As an American I'm very privileged
to be able to represent
in the Soviet Union
the concern of Americans.
We have agreed to a joint Soviet
American effort in this regard.
Until the accident there were 50
nuclear reactors operating in
the Soviet Union generating 11% of
that nations electricity.
Most of the larger Soviet plants
differ in design to US reactors.
the major difference is most Soviet
nuclear plants do not have
containment buildings.
the thick concrete dome structures
Americans are used to
seeing built around US reactors.
When the worst American nuclear
accident occurred at
Three Mile Island most leaking
radiation was kept inside
the containment building.
If as seems to be the case
there was no containment
around the reactor as is
the general-
Can we be sure of that? What do you-
I do not. I do not know.
Do you think there's
a containment building?
I don't think that there is a
containment building because
the policy of Soviet atomic er.
constructors was that
the reactor's absolutely safe and so
there is no need to have
this kind of precaution because it
indicate possibility of disaster
which Russian always can. considered
er. absolutely impossible.
So going to be clear about this.
you're. you're going as far
as to say you think it almost
certain or just probable
there was no protective shield
around this reactor
which appears to have melted down?
No I think that there is no
protection. protection shield
around this reactor's certainly
the case because the building
as such indicate
that there is no shield.
Walter Pattison. if that is so
what is the danger to life?
Well obviously if radioactivity got
as far as Scandinavia how long.
however long it took to get there.
a great deal must have escaped
close to the site.
What has been remarkable is how much
the Soviet people
in spite of all the evidence
still seem to be believing
the fairy stories the government is
still telling them.
It could be argued Martin that only
the Soviet Union could have
kept a lid on what might have been
a situation of public panic.
only a totalitarian state
could have got away with it.
I'm not sure they have
got away with it.
MAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN:
MAN IN FOOTAGE:
MAN ON SPEAKER:
MAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN:
WOMAN IN FOOTAGE:
MAN IN FOOTAGE:
WOMAN SPEAKING RUSSIAN:
The Russians say the Chernobyl
accident was caused by no fewer
than 6 violations of safety
procedures by staff.
that they say won't happen again.
Sunday's outbreak of fighting is
only the latest in four months
of violence in the tiny
Caucasian republic of Georgia.
Spasms of unrest in the Soviet Union
were felt in the southern republics
of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
The rebellion against communist
authority has now spread
and there's almost certainly more
trouble to come.
The decision to send in troops was
taken by President Gorbachev.
AccessibleCustomerService@sky.uk